TableauSetup.md, before:

# Tableau Setup Steps

To setup tableau instance, you will need to SSH into the actual EC2 instance with the private key-pairs from the respective environments.

Run through the following scripts below to setup the tableau instance (**NOTE: for ubuntu server, tableau only supports 16.04 and 18.04 LTS version**):

## Installation Preparation

```
# Tableau (before the next release) uses `tbladmin` OS user, need to be added 
sudo adduser tbladmin 
# Followed by the password and confirm-password of the new user added 

# Grant the user in the sudoer file
sudo visudo
# Add the following line into the file
##
## tbladmin ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL
##
# press Ctrl+X and then press Y to save changes, press ENTER to exit the editor

# Update the timezone to Singapore (UTC+8)
sudo unlink /etc/localtime
sudo ln -s /usr/share/zoneinfo/Asia/Singapore /etc/localtime

# Verify the timezone has been updated correctly using the following command:
timedatectl
```

## Installation of Tableau 

```
# All installation and setup has to be done using the `tbladmin` user created in the previous step
su - tbladmin
# type the password from the previous step 
sudo apt-get update 
# type the same password from the previous step 
sudo apt-get install git zsh tmux slapd ldap-utils aria2 gdebi-core zip

mkdir install && cd install 
aria2c -s 5 -x 5 https://downloads.tableau.com/esdalt/2022.1.1/tableau-server-2022-1-1_amd64.deb
sudo gdebi -n tableau-server-2022-1-1_amd64.deb


# After installation completed 
sudo /opt/tableau/tableau_server/packages/scripts.20221.22.0415.1144/initialize-tsm --accepteula

# Logs can be found in the following locations:
# /var/opt/tableau/tableau_server/logs/app-install.log
# /var/opt/tableau/tableau_server/data/tabsvc/logs/tabadmincontroller/control_tabadmincontroller_node1-0.log
```

## Tableau Activation and Starting TSM 

Make sure the following scripts are executed using the `tbladmin` user created earlier.

Use `su - tbladmin` to re-login to the user if the ssh pipe was broken.

```
source /etc/profile.d/tableau_server.sh 

# Replace the license key below
tsm licenses activate -k <KEY>

tsm login -u tbladmin
# type the password from the previous step 

# create new directory to store registration and other files if any
mkdir config && cd config
tsm register --template > registration_file.json

# Update the generated json registration template according to the need 
# Run the following command to register tableau 
tsm register --file registration_file.json

# Use default configuration (local identity store)
tsm settings import -f /opt/tableau/tableau_server/packages/scripts.20221.22.0415.1144/config.json
tsm pending-changes apply

# Initialize TSM service and initial dashboard user 
tsm initialize --start-server --request-timeout 1800
# feel free to update the username password for the default user of the tableau dashboard
tabcmd initialuser --server 'localhost:80' --username 'admin' --password 'admin'
```

For setting up with remote LDAP change the `config.json` file with the following example template content before execute the `tsm pending-changes apply` command:

```
{
  "configEntities":{
    "identityStore": {
    "_type": "identityStoreType",
    "type": "activedirectory",
    "domain": "bitdeer-inc",
    "port": "389",
    "nickname": "",
    "directoryServiceType": "activedirectory",
    "hostname": "bitdeer-inc.com",
    "bind": "simple",
    "username": "*",
    "password": "*"
    }
  }
}
```

## Tableau Server JDBC Driver Setup 

Make sure the following scripts are executed using the `tbladmin` user created earlier.

Use `su - tbladmin` to re-login to the user if the ssh pipe was broken.

```
# Go to the directory where tableau was installed
cd /opt/tableau

# Create directory if not exits
sudo mkdir -p tableau_driver/jdbc 

# Download the respective driver jar into this directory 
cd tableau_driver/jdbc 
sudo wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/facebook/presto/presto-jdbc/0.273.3/presto-jdbc-0.273.3.jar 
```

Commit message:

feature: update the TableauSetup.md for the UI option in setting up the SSO

TableauSetup.md, after:

# Tableau Setup Steps

To setup tableau instance, you will need to SSH into the actual EC2 instance with the private key-pairs from the respective environments.

Run through the following scripts below to setup the tableau instance (**NOTE: for ubuntu server, tableau only supports 16.04 and 18.04 LTS version**):

## Installation Preparation

```
# Tableau (before the next release) uses `tbladmin` OS user, need to be added 
sudo adduser tbladmin 
# Followed by the password and confirm-password of the new user added 

# Grant the user in the sudoer file
sudo visudo
# Add the following line into the file
##
## tbladmin ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL
##
# press Ctrl+X and then press Y to save changes, press ENTER to exit the editor

# Update the timezone to Singapore (UTC+8)
sudo unlink /etc/localtime
sudo ln -s /usr/share/zoneinfo/Asia/Singapore /etc/localtime

# Verify the timezone has been updated correctly using the following command:
timedatectl
```

## Installation of Tableau 

```
# All installation and setup has to be done using the `tbladmin` user created in the previous step
su - tbladmin
# type the password from the previous step 
sudo apt-get update 
# type the same password from the previous step 
sudo apt-get install git zsh tmux slapd ldap-utils aria2 gdebi-core zip

mkdir install && cd install 
aria2c -s 5 -x 5 https://downloads.tableau.com/esdalt/2022.1.1/tableau-server-2022-1-1_amd64.deb
sudo gdebi -n tableau-server-2022-1-1_amd64.deb


# After installation completed 
sudo /opt/tableau/tableau_server/packages/scripts.20221.22.0415.1144/initialize-tsm --accepteula

# Logs can be found in the following locations:
# /var/opt/tableau/tableau_server/logs/app-install.log
# /var/opt/tableau/tableau_server/data/tabsvc/logs/tabadmincontroller/control_tabadmincontroller_node1-0.log
```

## Tableau Activation and Starting TSM 

Make sure the following scripts are executed using the `tbladmin` user created earlier.

Use `su - tbladmin` to re-login to the user if the ssh pipe was broken.

```
source /etc/profile.d/tableau_server.sh 

# Replace the license key below
tsm licenses activate -k <KEY>

tsm login -u tbladmin
# type the password from the previous step 

# create new directory to store registration and other files if any
mkdir config && cd config
tsm register --template > registration_file.json

# Update the generated json registration template according to the need 
# Run the following command to register tableau 
tsm register --file registration_file.json

# Use default configuration (local identity store)
tsm settings import -f /opt/tableau/tableau_server/packages/scripts.20221.22.0415.1144/config.json
tsm pending-changes apply

# Initialize TSM service and initial dashboard user 
tsm initialize --start-server --request-timeout 1800
# feel free to update the username password for the default user of the tableau dashboard
tabcmd initialuser --server 'localhost:80' --username 'admin' --password 'admin'
```

For setting up with the SSO, it can be achieved in UI when first time login into the TSM backend server at port 8850.
For setting up with remote LDAP change the `config.json` file with the following example template content before execute the `tsm pending-changes apply` command:

```
{
  "configEntities":{
    "identityStore": {
    "_type": "identityStoreType",
    "type": "activedirectory",
    "domain": "bitdeer-inc",
    "port": "389",
    "nickname": "",
    "directoryServiceType": "activedirectory",
    "hostname": "bitdeer-inc.com",
    "bind": "simple",
    "username": "*",
    "password": "*"
    }
  }
}
```

## Tableau Server JDBC Driver Setup 

Make sure the following scripts are executed using the `tbladmin` user created earlier.

Use `su - tbladmin` to re-login to the user if the ssh pipe was broken.

```
# Go to the directory where tableau was installed
cd /opt/tableau

# Create directory if not exits
sudo mkdir -p tableau_driver/jdbc 

# Download the respective driver jar into this directory 
cd tableau_driver/jdbc 
sudo wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/facebook/presto/presto-jdbc/0.273.3/presto-jdbc-0.273.3.jar 
```
